# wildlife_whisperers
This repository is focused towards semantic data mining for extracting species population decline and the factors responsible for the same.
**Abstract**
Climate change has a wide range of impacts on all life forms, to varying extents. Changes in temperature, and compositions of air, water, soil and human activities such as agriculture, urbanization and industrialization collectively underlie climate change. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Working Group II report documents the impacts of climate change on human communities, ecosystems and biodiversity at both global and regional levels. Loss of habitat arising from the dynamic effects of climate change leads to species extinction. Numerous studies report the cause-and-effect relationship between climate change factors and species extinction, covering diverse flora and fauna. The present work was carried out using docanalysis tool which was introduced to us during The Climate Knowledge Hunt Hackathon during 26-27 February 2024. Using this tool, documents available on EPMC were extracted to analyze the loss of biodiversity due to climate change. This rich data repository could be made available as computable knowledge for facilitating climate change mitigation. To this end, data organised in a suitably structured form shall benefit for developing computable knowledge of climate change factors and their effects on species extinction for future planning of mitigation strategies. Literature text analysis from Europe PMC and emphasis knowledge graph generation revealed 514 species suffering population decline due to various climate change effects and anthropogenic effects. The top five species that were mentioned in research articles are Panthera tigris (tiger), Elaphurus davidianus (Père David's deer), Panthera leo (lion), Chelonoidis niger (Galápagos tortoise), and Psephurus gladius (Chinese paddlefish). The top five causes of species population decline are species invasion, overharvesting, deforestation, habitat loss, and anthropogenic activities. Species invasion affected the population decline of 207 species. In summary, this study highlights the impact of climate change factors on species decline and offers computable knowledge for use in various facets of the biosphere with potential use in designing control measures for preventing biodiversity loss. 
